I just want to briefly describe how
to install R for a Windows machine.
So the first thing you need to
do is launch your web browser.
So I'll do that here.
I'm using Chrome but
it really doesn't matter.
And you need to go to the Comprehensive
R Archive Network, or CRAN, so
let's type that in here.
And you'll see that at the top
there's three options.
There's Linux, a Mac and Windows.
So you can go to the Windows version here.
And you want to click
on the base link here.
So you can just click on this link and
the download will start.
And so depending on how fast
your Internet connection is,
this might take a few minutes.
Okay, so the download's finished.
I'm going to click on this.
And so, you can choose your language here.
There are a number of choices in terms of
the translations that you can choose from.
So I'm going to choose English
because that's my language.
And then you can just click
through the installer.
It'll kind of walk you through
the various steps, and so
we'll do that right now just
to see what the options are.
If you click on Next,
you have to agree to the license,
which is the GNU General Public License.
So feel free to read it and
then click on Next.
Then usually the default
installation directory is fine, so
I'm going to go through this.
The default user installation is fine.
There are other kind of installation
setups that you can choose from.
If you know you have a 32-bit machine,
it may be an older macihne,
you could click on that.
By default it will install both versions,
so
you don't have to really worry about that.
So, just click through Next on this one.
And you can choose to
take all the defaults or
you can try to customize your start-up.
I'm going to customize the start-up just
so you can see what the options are here.
So, this option here asks you whether
you want an MDI or SDI interface, so
what that means basically is do you
want R to kind of run in one big window.
You know, with kind of different
sub-windows inside of a big window.
Or do you want it to run kind
of like separate windows?
I prefer to use the STI mode, so
the console will be in one window and
the kind of graphics window
will be a separate window.
I just kind of,
I feel I like that a little bit better,
it's easier to work with.
So I'm going to click on the SDI option.
And then you can choose how you
want to look at your help files.
The HTML help is a little bit nicer,
it's prettier to read, and
the plain text help is,
well, it's just plain text.
So maybe I'll just click on
plain text just to be different.
And then you can choose whether you want
Standard or Internet2 Internet access.
This, generally speaking, you should not
mess with, so you just click on Next.
You can create a shortcut in the start
menu, so that's usually a good idea.
And you can usually choose the defaults
here, in terms of creating a desktop icon.
Unless your desktop is very cluttered and
you want to avoid that.
So these defaults are fine,
so I'll click on Next.
And then it will start installing
the files on your computer.
So now it's done.
And we can just click on Finish here.
And you've now installed
R on your computer.
And I see I've got a desktop icon here.
So I'll just double-click on that.
And there we are, we're running R.